"  '  Why  doth  this  mighty  power   boast  itself 
in  evils  ?     It  thought  to  take  away  my   The 
light  for  all  time,  like  the  iron  that  is   repentance 
smitten ;    they   have   taken    away  my   °    °^

100  PISTIS   SOPHIA.

power  from  me.  (102)  I  chose  ratlier  to  de- 
scend into  chaos  than  to  dwell  in  the  thirteenth 
aeon,  the  region  of  righteousness  ;  and  they 
desired  to  take  me  with  guile,  in  order  to  de- 
vour the  whole  of  my  light.  For  this  cause, 
therefore,  the  light  shall  take  away  the  whole  of 
their  light ;  all  their  matter  hath  been  in  con- 
fusion also ;  and  it  will  take  away  their  light, 
and  not  suffer  it  to  dwell  in  the  thirteenth  aeon, 
their  dwelling  place.  It  shall  not  set  their  name 
in  the  region  of  the  living ;  and  the  four  and 
twenty  emanations  shall  see  what  hath  befallen 
thee,  0  lion-faced  power,  that  they  may  fear 
and  no  longer  be  disobedient,  but  yield  the 
glory  of  their  light.  And  they  shall  see  thee  ; 
they  shall  rejoice  over  thee,  they  shall  say, 
"  Lo,  an  emanation  which  hath  not  given  the 
glory  of  its  light,  that  it  may  be  saved  ;  but 
boasteth  itself  in  the  abundance  of  the  light  of  its 
power,  for  it  did  not  project  in  the  power  which 
was  in  it,  and  hath  said,  '  I  will  take  away  the 
light  of  Pistis  Sophia,'  which  [light]  they  will 
now  take  from  it."  '

"  Now,  therefore,  let  him  in  whom  his  power 
is  aroused,  come  .forward,  and  utter  the  inter- 
pretation of  the  eleventh  repentance  of  Pistis 
Sophia."

Then  Salome  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Mas- 
ter, concerning  this  thy  light-power  prophesied

FIRST   BOOK.  101

of  old,  through  David,  in  the  fifty-first  Psalm, 
saying :

"  *  Why  doth  the  mighty  boast  himself  in  his 
iniquity  ?  (103)  Thy  tongue  hath  im-   Salome  m-

terpreteth