"  Yet  again,  0  my  disciples,  my  comrades  and 
my  brethren,  let  each  be  sober  in  mind,  let  him 
hear  and  understand  all  the  words  which  I  shall 
say  unto  you  ;  for,  from  this  hour  henceforth,  I 
shall  begin  to  speak  with  you  concerning  the 
gnosis  of  that  ineffable.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  west, 
and  why  an  east.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  south, 
and  why  a  north.

"  Yet  again,  0  my  disciples,  hearken  and  con- 
tinue to  be  sober,  that  ye  may  hear  the  entire 
gnosis  of  the  mystery  of  that  ineffable.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  de- 
mons, and  why  men.

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  heat, 
and  why  the  cool  breeze.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  stars, 
and  why  clouds.

212  PISTIS    SOPHIA.

(212)  ''That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  earth 
is  dug  out,  and  why  the  waters  have  come  over 
it.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  earth  is 
dried  up,  and  why  the  rain  falleth  upon  it.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  famine, 
and  why  abundance.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  white 
frost,  and  why  healthful  dew.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  dust, 
and  why  delightsome  freshness.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  hail, 
and  why  pleasant  snow.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  west 
wind,  and  why  an  east  wind.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  a  south 
wind,  and  why  a  north  wind.

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  the 
Of  the  hie-   planets  of  heaven   and   the    disks   of

rarchies  of       c^

powers.  i\^Q  light-givers,  (213)  and  why  there 
is  the  firmament  with  all  its  veils.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rulers 
of  the  spheres,  and  why  the  sphere  with  all  its 
types.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  rulers 
of  the  seons,  and  why  the  aeons  and  their  veils.