mystery — lie,  then,  who  shall  have  received  this 
mystery,  shall  have  the  power  of  exploring  all 
the  orders  of  the  spaces  of  the  three  trispirituals 
and  of  the  three  spaces  of  the  first  mystery,  and 
also  all  their  orders ;  and  he  shall  have  the 
power  of  exploring  all  the  orders  of  the  inherit- 
ance of  light,  of  exploring  from  without  within, 
and  from  within  without,  from  above  below,  and 
from  below  above,  from  the  height  to  the  depth, 
and  from  the  depth  to  the  height,  from  the 
length  to  the  breadth,  and  from  the  breadth  to 
the  length  ;  in  a  word,  (206)  he  shall  have  the 
power  of  exploring  all  the  regions  of  the  inherit- 
ances of  light,  and  he  shall  have  the  power  of 
remaining  in  the  region  which  he  shall  choose, 
in  the  inheritance  of  the  light-king-dom.

"  Amen,  I  say  unto  you,  this  man,  in  the 
dissolution  of  the  world,  shall  be  king  over  all 
the  orders  of  the  inheritance  of  light ;  and  he 
who  shall  have  received  the  mystery  of  the 
ineffable,  that  man  is  myself.

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there   Of  the

•!  •&gt;  J  gnosis  of

is  darkness,  and  why  light.  *^®  *bs°-

•^       *=*  lute  mys-

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there   t^'^y- 
is  the  darkness  of  darknesses,  and  why  the  light 
of  lights.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  chaos  exist- 
eth,  and  why  the  treasure  of  light.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  judg-

208  PISTIS    SOPHIA.

ments,  and  why  the  Kght- world  hath  been 
created  together  with  the  region  of  the  inherit- 
ances of  lio^ht.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  are  all  the 
punishments  of  sinners,  and  why  the  rest  of  the 
kino^dom  of  light.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  sin- 
ners, and  why  inheritances  of  light.

(207)  '•'  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are 
unrighteous,  and  why  there  are  good.