"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  [magic]  potions, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  saved  from  the  great  frost  and  hail 
of  the  outer  darkness.'

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  blasphemy,  that 
ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of  light,  and 
saved  from  the  great  dragon  of  the  outer  dark- 
ness.'

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Renounce  the  doctrines  of 
error,  that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries 
of  light,  and  saved  from  all  the  punishments 
of  the  great  dragon  of  the  outer  darkness.'

"  Say  unto  them  who  teach  the  doctrines  of 
error,  and  to  them  who  are  taught  by  them, 
'  Woe  unto  you,  for  if  ye  repent  not,  and 
abandon  not  your  errors,  ye  shall  come  into 
the  torments  of  the  great  dragon  of  the  in- 
exorable outer  darkness,  and  ye  shall  not  be 
set  free  from  the  world  for  the  eternity,  ye 
shall  be  without  existence  until  the  end.'

SECOND    BOOK.  259

(259)  "  Say  unto  them  that  abandon  the 
doctrines  of  truth  of  the  first  mystery,  '  Woe 
unto  you,  for  your  torment  shall  be  worse  than 
that  of  all  men,  for  ye  shall  dwell  in  the  great 
ice,  and  frost,  and  hail,  in  the  midst  of  the 
dragon  and  the  outer  darkness,  and  ye  shall  not 
be  set  free  from  the  world  henceforth  for  the 
eternity,  ye  shall  be  frozen  up  in  that  region, 
and  in  the  ascension  of  the  pleroma,  ye  shall 
be  lost,  ye  shall  be  non-existent  for  the  eternity.'

"  Say  also  unto  the  men  of  the  world,  '  Be 
diliofent,   that    ye     may     receive     the    what  men

^       .'  .  -^  -^  .  should

mysteries  of  light,  and  enter  into  the   practise, 
height  of  the  kingdom  of  light.'

"  Say  unto  them,  '  Be  ye  loving  unto  men, 
that  ye  may  be  worthy  of  the  mysteries  of 
light,  and  enter  into  the  height,  into  the  king- 
dom of  light.'