given  by  Kostlin  (v.  i.)  is  unverifiable.  When  the  Museum 
bought  it  is  not  stated.  It  was  evidently  befoi'e  the  great 
sale  of  the  Askew  library  which  lasted  twenty  days  in  1785, 
for  the  Pistis  Sophia  is  not  mentioned  in  the  catalogue 
(Bibliotheca  Askeviana  Manuscripta,  etc.,  1785;  v.  Askew, 
A.,  Cat.  B.M.).  The  MS.  is  written  on  vellum  in  Greek 
uncial  letters,  and  is  in  the  Upper  Egyptian  dialect,  called 
Thebaidic  or  Sahidic.  It  consists  of  3-46  quarto  pages 
written  in  double  column,  and  for  the  most  part  is  in  an 
excellent  state  of  preservation  ;  several  pages,  however,  are 
badly  defaced,  and  a  number  faint.  Perhaps  the  most 
competent  expert  who  has  yet  given  a  decided  opinion  as 
to  its  date  is  Woide,  Avhose  knowledge  of  such  matters  was 
very  extensive,  and  cannot  be  easily  surpassed.  It  was  by 
Woide  that  the  New  Testament,  according  to  the  text  of 
the  famous  Codex  Alexandrinus,  was  edited,  in  uncial  tj'pes 
cast  to  imitate  those  of  the  MS.,  in  1786.  In  an  Appendix 
to  this  great  undertaking,  in  1799,  he  added  certain  frag- 
ments of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Thebaico-Coptic  dialect, 
together  with  a  dissertation  on  the  Coptic  version  of  the 
New  Testament.  The  date  of  the  Codex  Alexandrinus  is 
pretty  generally  assigned  to  the  fifth  century,  and  with  the 
exception  of  the  Codex  Vaticanus  and  the  Codex  Sinaiticus, 
which  are  sometimes  assigned  to  the  fourth  century,  is  the 
oldest  extant  MS.  of  the  New  Testament.  This  being 
the  case,  it  is  of  interest  to  read  Woide's  description 
and  opinion  of  the  MS.  of  Pistis  Sophia,  which  was  lent  to 
this  ripe  scholar  by  Dr.  Askew  and  his  heirs  long  enough 
for  him  to  copy  it  out  from  the  first  word  to  the  last. 
Woide  was,  therefore,  eminently  fitted  in  every  way  to  form 
an  opinion ;  in  fact,  no  one  of  equal  fitness  seems  to  have 
appeared  in  the  field  since  his  time.  In  Cramer's  Beytrage 
(op.  inf.  cit.,  pp.  82  sq.),  Woide  wrote  as  follows  in  1778  : 
"It  [P.  S.]  is  a  very  old  MS.  in  4to  on  parchment  in  Greek 
uncial  characters,  which  are  not  so  round  as  those  in  the 
Alexandrine  MS.  in  London,  and  in  the  Claromontain  MS. 
in  Paris  [Codex  Regius  Parisiensis,  also  an  Alexandrine  text].