"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  sen- 
tences of  punishment,  and  why  are  all  the 
emanations  of  light.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  sin  existeth, 
and  why  there  are  baptisms  and  mysteries  of 
liojht.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  the  fire  of 
punishment  existeth,  and  why  there  are  seals  of 
light  to  escape  the  burning  of  the  fire.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  blasphemy  ex- 
isteth, and  why  there  are  songs  to  the  light.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  prayers 
to  the  light.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  cursing  ex- 
isteth, and  why  blessing.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  killing  existeth, 
and  why  the  enlivening  of  souls.

(208)  "That  mystery  knoweth  why  adultery 
and  fornication  exist,  and  why  there  is  purity.

SECOND    BOOK.  209

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  inter- 
course, and  why  continence.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  pride 
and  boasting,  and  why  humility  and  gentle- 
ness.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  are  tears, 
and  why  laughter.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  slander, 
and  why  good  conversation.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  readi- 
ness to  hear,  and  why  disregard.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  murmur- 
ing, and  why  simpleness  and  holiness.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  sin,  and 
why  purity.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  strength, 
and  why  weakness.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  bodily 
impropriety,  and  why  decency.

(209)  "  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is 
poverty,  and  why  riches.

"That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  wealth 
in  the  world,  and  why  bondage.

"  That  mystery  knoweth  why  there  is  death, 
and  why  life,"

It  came  to  pass,   therefore,   when  Jesus  had

finished  saying  these   words  unto  his  disciples,

that  they  rejoiced  with  great  joy,  and  were  in