The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
Of  the  for-     "  Amcu,  amcn,  I  say  unto  you,   who-

giveness  ''  ''

even  unto      socvcr     shall     rcccive     the    mysteries

twelve

times  of        of  the  first   mystery,   and    then    shall

them  who

have  received  turn  back  and  trausgress  twelve  times

teryofthe     [eveu],     and    then    should    again    re- 
first  mys-  .  (v     • 
tery.             pent  twclvc  times,  oiiermg  prayer  m

SECOND   BOOK.  305

the  mystery  of  the  first  mystery,  he  shall  be 
forgiven.

"  But  if  he  should  transgress  after  twelve 
times,  should  he  turn  back  and  transgress,  it 
shall  not  be  remitted  unto  him  for  ever,  so  that 
he  may  turn  again  unto  his  mystery,  whatever 
it  be.  For  him  there  is  no  means  of  repentance 
unless  he  have  received  the  mysteries  of  that 
ineffable,  which  hath  compassion  at  all  times  and 
remitteth  sins  for  ever  and  ever."

Mary  continued  further  and  said  :  "If  even 
they  who  have  received  the  mysteries  of 
the  first  mystery  turn  back  and  commit  sin, 
and  if  they  pass  out  of  the  body  without 
repentance,  shall  they  inherit  the  kingdom  or 
not  ? "

The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  Mary  : 
*'Amen,  amen,  I  say  unto  you,  every  ofsuchini- 
one  that  shall  have  received  the  mys-   '^^°  ^i^

•'  without

teries  in  the  first  mystery,  (306)  and  repentance. 
shall  have  transgressed  for  the  first,  second  or 
third  time,  if  he  pass  out  of  the  body  without 
repentance,  his  judgment  is  more  severe  than 
every  other ;  for  his  dwelling  is  in  the  midst  of 
the  jaws  of  the  dragon  of  the  outer  darkness,  and 
last  of  all  he  shall  be  frozen  up  in  the  torments 
and  shall  be  lost  for  ever,  in  that  he  hath  re- 
ceived the  boon  of  the  first  mystery  and  hath

not  continued  therein."

20

306  PISTIS    SOPHIA.