" '  Sing  a  song,  0  my  power,  to  the  light,  and 
Sophia  con-   forget  not  all  the  light- powers  which

tinueth  her  °  o        i

song.  it  hath  given  unto  thee,  and  all  the

powers  which  are  in  thee.  Sing  the  name  of 
his  holy  mystery,  which  remitteth  every  trans- 
gression ;  [of  him]  who  saveth  thee  from  all  the 
afflictions  with  which  the  emanations  of  Arro- 
gant have  constrained  thee  ;  who  hath  preserved

SECOND   BOOK.  163

their  light  from  all  the  emanations  of  Arrogant, 
which  are  numbered  for  destruction  ;  (163)  who 
hath  bestowed  a  crown  of  light  upon  thy  head 
to  preserve  thee ;  who  hath  filled  thee  with 
pure  light,  and  thy  source  shall  be  renewed  as 
an  invisible  of  the  heights.'

"  These  words  Pistis  Sophia  said,  in  that  she 
had  been  preserved  and  remembered  all  things 
which  had  been  done  unto  her."

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  speaking  these  words  unto 
his  disciples,  that  he  said  unto  them  :  "  Let  him 
who  understandeth  the  interpretation  of  these 
words  come  forward  and  expound  it  in  free- 
dom."

Then  Mary  came  forward,  and  said :  "  My 
Master,  concerning  the  words  which  Pistis 
Sophia  uttered  in  her  song,  thy  light-power 
prophesied  of  old,  through  David,  saying  :

"  '  Praise  the  lord,  0  my  soul ;  let  all  that  is 
within  me  praise  his  holy  name  and  Mary  inter- 
forget  not  all  his  recompenses  ;  [for  he  I'j.oni  the 
it  is]  who  remitteth  all  thy  iniquities  ;  ^^^^s. 
who  healeth  all  thy  infirmities ;  who  saveth  thy 
life  from  destruction  ;  who  putteth  on  thy  head 
a  crown  of  mercy  and  loving  kindness ;  who 
satisfieth  thy  desire  with  good  things.  Thy 
childhood  shall  be  renewed  like  an  eagle's.'

"  That  is  to  say,  Sophia  shall  be  like  those

164  PISTIS   SOPHIA.