saying.  jjast  spokeu.  Concerning  this  saying 
thou  didst  speak  unto  us  aforetime  in  parable, 
saying,  '  The  servant  who  knoweth  the  will  of 
his  master,  and  yet  hath  not  made  ready  nor 
done  the  will  of  his  master,  shall  receive  many 
stripes,  but  he  who  hath  not  known  and  hath 
not  done  [the  will  of  his  master],  shall  receive 
but  few.  For  to  whom  more  hath  been  en- 
trusted, of  him  more  shall  be  asked,  and  to 
whom  many  things  have  been  committed,  of  him 
many  shall  be  required.'  That  is  to  say,  0 
Master,  he  who  knoweth  the  godhead  and  hath 
found  all  the  mysteries  of  the  light,  and  [then] 
hath  transgressed,  he  shall  be  punished  with 
greater  chastisements  than  him  who  hath  not 
known  the  godhead.  This,  0  Master,  is  the 
interpretation  of  the  word."

And  Mary   continued  further  and  said    unto

SECOND   BOOK.  317

the  saviour  :  '*  Master,  if  the  faith  and  mysteries 
become  generally  known,  now,  therefore,  if  souls 
return  to  [birth  in]  the  world  for  many  cycles, 
and  are  indifferent  so  that  they  do  not  receive 
the  mysteries,  in  the  belief  that  when  they 
return  to  the  world  in  another  cycle,  they  will 
receive  them,  shall  they  not,  then,  suffer  misery 
in  order  that  they  may  be  brought  to  receive 
the  mysteries  ? "

(317)  The  saviour  answered  and  said  unto  his 
disciples  :  "  Preach  ye  unto  the  whole   o^'hem

^  ''  who  pro-

world,   saying   unto  men,    '  Strive   to-    crastinate,

•^       *=•  saying  they

gether  that  ye  may  receive  the  mys-  tave  many 
teries  of  light  in  this  time  of  stress,  fore  them. 
and  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  light.  Put  not 
off  from  day  to  day,  and  from  cycle  to  cycle, 
in  the  belief  that  ye  will  succeed  in  obtaining 
the  mysteries  when  ye  return  to  the  world  in 
another  cycle.'