And  Mary  answered  and  said  unto  the  first 
mystery  in  the  midst  of  the  disciples  :  "  Master, 
concerning  the  interpretation  of  the  words 
uttered  by  Pistis  Sophia,  thy  light-power  pro- 
phesied of  old,  through  David,  saying  :

"'I  will  magnify  thee,  0  lord,  for  thou  hast 
received  me  unto  thyself,  and  thou  Mary  inter- 
hast  not  let  mine  enemies  rejoice  over  ^ong^JJ  *^^ 
me.  0  lord,  my  God,  I  have  cried  from'the 
unto  thee,  and  thou  hast  healed  me.  P^aims. 
O  lord,  thou  hast  drawn  my  soul  forth  from 
hell,  thou  hast  saved  me  from  them  that  de- 
scend into  the  pit.'  "

When  Mary  had  spoken  these  things,  the  first 
mystery  said  unto  her,  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Mary,  thou  blessed  one."

He  continued  in  his  conversation,  and  said  unto

his  disciples  :  (162)  "And  Sophia  continued  in

lier  song,  and  said  :

11

162  PISTIS   SOPHIA.

"  '  The  light  hath  been  a  saviour  unto  me  ;  it 
Sophia  con-    hath  changed  my  darkness  into  light ;

tinueth  her     .111^1  t      1

song.  it    hath   cleit  the  darkness   that   sur-

rounded me,  and  hath  girded  me  with  light.'  "

It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  when  the  first 
mystery  had  finished  speaking  these  words, 
that  Martha  came  forward,  and  said  :  "  Master, 
thy  power  hath  prophesied  of  old  through  David, 
concerning  this  word,  saying  :

" '  The  Lord  hath  been  my  succour  ;  he  hath 
Martha  in-  changed  my  song  of  mourning  into 
froTthe^  joy.  He  hath  rent  my  sackcloth. 
Psalms.        g^jj^j  girded  me  with  joy.'  "

It  came  to  pass,  when  the  first  mystery  had 
finished  hearing  the  words  which  Martha  had 
uttered,  that  he  said  :  "  Well  said ;  it  is  well, 
Martha."

And  the  first  mystery  continued  in  his  con- 
versation, and  said  unto  his  disciples  :  "  Pistis 
Sophia  further  continued  with  her  song,  and 
said :