by  order  of  the  first  mystery,  (26)  leou,  the  over- 
seer of  the  light,  had  placed  them  facing  the  left 
for  all  time,  accomplishing  their  influences  and 
actions.  It  came  to  pass,  therefore,  that  when 
I  had  entered  into  their  regions,  they  rebelled 
and  fought  against  the  light.  I  took  from  them 
the  third  part  of  their  power,  in  order  that  they 
should  not  accomplish  •  their  evil  actions.  And 
the  fate  and  sphere  over  which  they  rule  I 
changed,  and  set  them  facing  the  left  for  six 
months,  accomplishing  their  influences,  and  set 
them  to  turn  six  months  to  the  right,  accom- 
plishing their  influences."

And  when  he  had  spoken  these  things  unto 
his  disciples,  he  said  unto  them  :  "  He  that  hath 
ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear."

It  came  to  pass,  when  Mary  had  heard  the 
words  which  the  saviour  said,  that  she  gazed, 
as  one  inspired,  into  the  air  for  the  space  of  an 
hour.  She  said  unto  him  :  "  Master,  give  com- 
mandment unto  me  to  speak  freely."

And  Jesus,  the  compassionate,  answered  and 
said  unto  Mary  :   "  Speak  freely,  Mary,

Mary

thou  blessed  one,  whom  I  will  perfect   asketh  and

receiveth

m  all  the  mysteries  of  the  dwellers  on    permission 
high,  thou,  whose  heart  is  right  for  the 
kingdom    of    the    heavens    more    than    all   thy 
brethren."

Then    said    Mary    to    the    saviour :    "  Master,

26  PISTIS   SOPHIA.

the  word  that  thou  hast  spoken,  to  wit,  (27) 
'he  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear,'  thou 
hast  said  it  unto  us,  in  order  that  we  may 
understand  the  word  which  thou  hast  spoken. 
Give  ear,  therefore,  0  Master,  that  I  may- 
speak  freely.

"The  word  which  thou  hast  spoken,  to  wit, 
'  I     changed     their     fate     and     their

Mary  inter-  ^

preteth  the    spheres  over  which  they  rule,  in  order