last.'  The  first,  they  who  were  created  before 
us,  therefore,  are  the  invisibles,  for  they  were 
created  before  men,  they  and  the  gods,  and  the 
rulers ;  and  the  men  who  shall  receive  the 
mvsterv  shall  be  with  them  in  the  res-ion  of 
the  heavens."

Jesus  said  unto  her  :  "  Well  said,  Mary." 
And    Jesus    continued     and    said    unto    his 
The  repent-   disciplcs  I    "It   Came   to    pass,   there-

ance  of  •■■  -^

Sophia  is      fore,    whcu   Pistis   Sophia  had  recited

accepted.  _  •"■  _         _

Jesus  is        her  ninth    repentance,   that  this   lion- 
sent  to 
help  her.       faced    powcr    compressed    her    again,

wishing  to  take  from  her  the  whole  power  which

was  in  her.     She  cried  out  again  to  the  light,

saying  :  (99)  '  0  light,  in  whom  I  have  trusted

from  the  beginning,  for  thy  sake  have  I  endured

this  great  affliction  ;  aid  me.'     And  in  this  hour

her  repentance  was  accepted,   the  first  mystery

heard  her,  and  I  was  sent  by  his  commandment ;

I  came  and   helped  her ;  I  led  her  out  of  chaos,

in  that  she  had  repented  and  that  she  had  also

trusted  in  the  light ;  that  she  had  endured  these

great  tribulations  and  these  great  perils ;  that

FIRST    BOOK.  97

they  had  tried  to  deceive  her  by  the  orders  of 
this  god  Arrogant,  and  had  not  been  able  to 
deceive  her  in  anything,  save  by  a  stream  of 
light,  because  of  its  resemblance  to  the  light  in 
which  she  had  trusted.  For  this  cause  was  I 
sent  by  order  of  the  first  mystery,  to  succour 
her  in  secret,  for  I  had  not  yet  [openly]  entered 
the  region  of  the  aeons ;  but  I  had  passed 
through  the  midst  of  them,  without  any  power 
knowing  it,  either  those  of  the  interior  of  the 
interior,  or  those  of  the  exterior  of  the  exterior, 
save  only  the  first  mystery.