JESUS' DAILY LIFE AND COMPANIONS

THE CALLING OF THE DISCIPLES (Matthew 4:18-22)
And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother,
casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you
fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.

JESUS WITH THE TWELVE
And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach:
Simon (whom he also named Peter), Andrew, James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas,
James the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot.

DAILY MINISTRY
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom,
and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people.

WITH MARY AND MARTHA (Luke 10:38-42)
Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village:
and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.

EATING WITH SINNERS (Mark 2:15-17)
And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners
sat also together with Jesus and his disciples. And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat
with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh
with publicans and sinners? When Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have
no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

THE CHILDHOOD OF JESUS (Luke 2:41-52)
Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the passover. And when he was twelve years old,
they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned,
the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. And when they found him, he was in the temple, sitting in the midst
of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his
understanding and answers.

JESUS THE CARPENTER (Mark 6:3)
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon?
and are not his sisters here with us?

PRAYER LIFE
And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place,
and there prayed.

COMPASSION FOR THE CROWDS
But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted,
and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.